What should I pack for my Royal Caribbean cruise vacation?
A
Personal Items:

We suggest that guests transport all their medications in their carry-on luggage to minimize the potential for diversion or loss of medications and advise that all medications remain in their original, labeled prescription containers.  It is also advisable to pack at least three days of extra medication in the event of an unexpected change in the itinerary of the voyage.

Clothing:

When you’re on board, the right look will vary by venue. But here are a few types of suggested attire you’ll see, grouped by occasion. Shoes should be low-heeled for deck activities. Bring a few swimsuits (so you will always have a dry one). Ashore, you’ll need comfortable walking shoes.

If you're cruising to the Caribbean, Mexico or other warm weather destinations, bring a hat for protection from the sun. If your cruise vacation will take you to Alaska, Canada & New England or Northern Europe, be sure to pack a jacket and several sweaters.

Casual: You're on vacation – relax! Jeans, shorts, tees, tank tops, polos, sundresses and blouses are all the right amount of laid back. Please keep swimwear to the Pool Deck.

Smart Casual: Think of this as a step up from your typical dinner wear. Dress to impress with jackets, sports coats, blazers, collared shirts, dresses, skirts and blouses, or pantsuits.

Formal: Make it a night out in your best black-tie look – suits and ties, tuxedos, cocktail dresses or evening gowns.

Last Night of Cruise: Bring an overnight bag for your last night at sea. Staff will collect your luggage the night before disembarkation and you will need an overnight bag to carry your nightclothes and toiletries.



How do I get luggage tags?
A
The Royal guest document (eDocs - electronic document) we issue includes a bag tag specific to the guest ship, sailing date, stateroom and deck number. The bag tag also provides information on how it should be used. In addition, generic bag tags are available at the pier on the day of boarding.

What is the dress code onboard all ships?
A
When you’re onboard, the right look will vary by venue. But here are a few types of suggested attire you’ll see, grouped by item.

Casual: You’re on vacation – relax! Jeans, polos, sundresses and blouses are all the right amount of laid back. Please keep swimwear to the Pool Deck. Shorts are welcomed for breakfast and lunch.
Smart Casual: Think of this as a step up from your typical dinner wear. Dress to impress with collared shirts, dresses, skirts and blouses, or pantsuits. Jackets, sports coats and blazers are snazzy and welcomed. 
Formal: Make it a night out in your best black-tie look – suits and ties, tuxedos, cocktail dresses or evening gowns. There can be 1-3 formal nights during a sailing and is at the ship’s discretion.
Formal nights

Think of our formal dress code as a night out in your best black-tie look — suits and ties, tuxedos, cocktail dresses or evening gowns are all acceptable options. There can be 1 to 4 formal nights during a sailing and is at the ship’s discretion. Our Chef’s Table dining experience also enforces a formal dress code policy.

3/4/5 night cruises - 1 formal night*
6 and 7 night cruises - 2 formal nights*
8 to 10 night cruises - 2 formal nights*
11 to 14 night cruises - 3 formal nights*
15 + night cruises - 3 or 4 formal nights*
*The number of formal nights is at the ship's discretion and can vary by itinerary.Main Dining Room/Specialty Dining Venues


Main Dining Room/Specialty Dining Venues

Bare feet are not allowed at any time in any venue and tank tops are not permitted in the Main Dining Room or Specialty Dining venues for dinner.
Casino Dress Code

Shirt and shoes are always required. Cover-ups should be worn over bathing attire.

How much luggage can I bring onboard a Royal Caribbean cruise ship?
A
Each guest is permitted to carry a reasonable amount of personal property (including luggage) aboard the vessel; however, for your comfort and convenience, it is recommended that you limit the number of pieces you take. Each guest has the option to carry their luggage on board or check-in luggage prior to boarding. Luggage may include suitcases, trunks, valises, satchels, bags, hangers containing clothing, toiletries and similar items. Here are some recommendations for packing only cruise essentials.

We recommend that guests personally carry any boarding documentation such as passports, visas, citizenship documents and family legal documents plus all medications. To minimize the potential for diversion or loss of medications, we advise that all medications remain in their original, labeled prescription containers.  It is also advisable to pack at least three days of extra medication in the event of an unexpected change in the itinerary of the voyage. It is also a good idea for guests to pack a small carry-on bag with a change of clothes, and bathing suit. That way they don't have to wait for their checked bags to arrive in their stateroom.

Luggage may be locked only with a TSA approved lock.

Any carry-on luggage must be able to fit through the x-ray screening machines. These machines vary in size from port to port, however generally they are similar to those found at airport security check points. Guests wishing to carry their luggage with them during boarding should note that their stateroom may not be immediately available to store their luggage.


How do I request replacement luggage tags from Royal Caribbean?
A
If you forgot your luggage tags at home, ship luggage tags are available from our Porters at the pier on the day of boarding but to avoid any day-of-boarding delays we recommend that you secure your Luggage Tags before leaving home if you are a qualified guest.

When can I expect to get my luggage once onboard?
A
Due to the high volume of luggage on embarkation day, luggage may arrive after the sailaway. A specific time window for delivery as well as pick up* locations will be posted in the Cruise Compass once you are onboard.  Times and location vary by ship and sailing. 

* If your luggage was found to have any prohibited items, it will be placed in a separate area for pick up.


Does Royal Caribbean offer Luggage Valet? What are the benefits?
A
Luggage Valet is a service offered onboard which enables guests to bypass traditional airport check-ins. Guest who participate will be processed onboard the ship and receive their airline boarding passes, luggage tags as well as baggage claim checks for their checked-in luggage. 

Luggage Valet is offered at a minimal fee, plus the airline luggage fees. The per person fee is waived for guests staying in Grand Suites and above.

Royal Caribbean's Luggage Valet Program offers the following benefits:

Check-In for your flight onboard.
Receive your boarding passes and luggage tags in your stateroom.
Luggage will be transported directly from your stateroom to the airport and onto your flight.
No need to wait in lines to check-in at the airport.
International and Domestic flights are accepted. (Except for Delta Airlines, only Domestic flights)
This service is available in these selected ports and airlines on 7 night sailings or longer:

PORT
GUEST FLIGHT AND ALL
CONNECTIONS MUST BE WITH
Seattle, Washington	Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA)
Alaska Airlines
American Airlines
Delta Air Lines (Domestic Flights Only)
JetBlue
Southwest Airlines (Latest Flight 6pm)
United Airlines
 

Other criteria for eligibility:

Your flight needs to be the same day of ship’s arrival.
* Participating airlines vary by port. Consult the Guest Relations Desk onboard for specific port qualifications and additional information. An additional fee will apply.